README.md, before:

# Salesforce Automation project

**Several tools for supporting test automation frameworks:**
Java 1.8, Selenium 4.1.1, TestNG 7.4.0, Cucumber 7.0.0, REST Assured 4.4.0, Maven, Travis CI (Jenkins Soon), Allure Reports, Cucumber Reports, Slack API (Soon), SeleniumGrid 4.1.1, WebDriverManager, Saucelabs (Soon), GitHub Pages.

## RUN TESTS

- In terminal type `mvn test` -> This will run all tests from tests package.`(src/test/java/Features)`  
You can pass some environment values e.g:
   - `-Dtests.executor=chrome` <sub>_**This will run your test cases using the selected executor, the available executors are firefox, grid, saucelabs, and chrome.**_</sub>
   - `-Dcucumber.filter.tags="@tag or @another and @api"` <sub>_**This will run all `.feature` scenarios with the provided tag.**_</sub>

## API 
Currently, only Rest-Assured is supported, but it could be extended to Okhttp. Some materials that would be useful for expanding the API tests:
- [JSONPath Online Evaluator](https://jsonpath.com/)
- [Expressions in JSONPath](https://toolsqa.com/rest-assured/expressions-in-jsonpath/)
- [Read JSON Response Body using Rest Assured](https://toolsqa.com/rest-assured/read-json-response-body-using-rest-assured/)
- [Rest Assured Tutorial](https://www.toolsqa.com/rest-assured-tutorial/)


## RESULTS AND LOGS
### CI/CD
- **Travis:** After each CI/CD cycle run, tests results will be automatically uploaded to [Github pages](https://ivan-andraschko.github.io/salesforce-automation/)

- **Jenkins:** Soon...

### Localhost
After each local cycle run logs and results are saved inside project, on allure-reports, allure-results, cucumber-reports, and logs folders.
### Allure & Cucumber Reports
- **Allure:** In terminal type `allure generate allure-results --clean` to generate Allure tests results, and then `allure open` to open the allure report.  
- **Cucumber:** Report is generated automatically, you will find those reports under cucumber-reports folder.
## SELENIUM GRID 
Here are the steps to deploy the Grid 4 to a Kubernetes cluster on development:
- Initialize kubernetes locally: `$ minikube start`.
- Install the NGINX ingress controller: `$ minikube addons enable ingress` [NGINX Installation Guide](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/deploy/).
- Configure your localhost to point hostname to kubernetes cluster: The private URL to access on the grid is defined as **salesforce-qa-testing.com** into k8s/ingress-nginx.yaml file:
  - **Windows**: Edit this file `C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc\hosts` and place the result of `$ minikube ip` alongside of **salesforce-qa-testing.com** URL, e.g.: `192.168.99.100 salesforce-qa-testing.com`. 
  - **Unix**: Sames as windows but within this file `/etc/hosts`.
- Deploy all the grid components to kubernetes: `$ kubectl apply -f k8s`.

Run your test cases on Selenium grid:
1. Make sure that SeleniumGrid is running properly, check http://salesforce-qa-testing.com.
2. In terminal type `mvn test -Dtests.executor=grid -Dremote.browser=chrome`
## AUTHOR
- **Ivan Andraschko** - [Ivan Andraschko](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ivan-andraschko/)
## LICENSE
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details

Commit message:

Project 3.7 First steps to integrate appium framework

README.md, after:

# Salesforce Automation project

**Several tools for supporting test automation frameworks:**
Java 1.8, Selenium 4.1.1, TestNG 7.4.0, Cucumber 7.0.0, REST Assured 4.4.0, Maven, Travis CI (Jenkins Soon), Allure Reports, Cucumber Reports, Slack API (Soon), SeleniumGrid 4.1.1, WebDriverManager, Saucelabs (Soon), GitHub Pages.

## RUN TESTS

In terminal type `mvn test` -> This will run all tests from tests package.`(src/test/java/Features)`  
You can pass some environment values e.g:
   - `-Dtests.executor=chrome` <sub>_**This will run your test cases using the selected executor, the available executors are firefox, grid, saucelabs, and chrome.**_</sub>
   - `-Dcucumber.filter.tags="@tag or @another and @api"` <sub>_**This will run all `.feature` scenarios with the provided tag.**_</sub>
### PRECONDITIONS TO RUN APPIUM TESTS
You must have a device simulator running, so that the appium server can recognize it. The device name is defined in the TestEnvironment.java class. The installation steps are described [here](#appium).

## API 
Currently, only Rest-Assured is supported, but it could be extended to Okhttp. Some materials that would be useful for expanding the API tests:
- [JSONPath Online Evaluator](https://jsonpath.com/)
- [Expressions in JSONPath](https://toolsqa.com/rest-assured/expressions-in-jsonpath/)
- [Read JSON Response Body using Rest Assured](https://toolsqa.com/rest-assured/read-json-response-body-using-rest-assured/)
- [Rest Assured Tutorial](https://www.toolsqa.com/rest-assured-tutorial/)


## RESULTS AND LOGS
### CI/CD
- **Travis:** After each CI/CD cycle run, tests results will be automatically uploaded to [Github pages](https://ivan-andraschko.github.io/salesforce-automation/)

- **Jenkins:** Soon...

### Localhost
After each local cycle run logs and results are saved inside project, on allure-reports, allure-results, cucumber-reports, and logs folders.
### Allure & Cucumber Reports
- **Allure:** In terminal type `allure generate allure-results --clean` to generate Allure tests results, and then `allure open` to open the allure report.  
- **Cucumber:** Report is generated automatically, you will find those reports under cucumber-reports folder.
## SELENIUM GRID 
Here are the steps to deploy the Grid 4 to a Kubernetes cluster on development:
- Initialize kubernetes locally: `$ minikube start`.
- Install the NGINX ingress controller: `$ minikube addons enable ingress` [NGINX Installation Guide](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/deploy/).
- Configure your localhost to point hostname to kubernetes cluster: The private URL to access on the grid is defined as **salesforce-qa-testing.com** into k8s/ingress-nginx.yaml file:
  - **Windows**: Edit this file `C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc\hosts` and place the result of `$ minikube ip` alongside of **salesforce-qa-testing.com** URL, e.g.: `192.168.99.100 salesforce-qa-testing.com`. 
  - **Unix**: Sames as windows but within this file `/etc/hosts`.
- Deploy all the grid components to kubernetes: `$ kubectl apply -f k8s`.

Run your test cases on Selenium grid:
1. Make sure that SeleniumGrid is running properly, check http://salesforce-qa-testing.com.
2. In terminal type `mvn test -Dtests.executor=grid -Dremote.browser=chrome`


##APPIUM
### Installing Appium 2.0
At the moment, Appium 2.0 is not the main line of Appium development, so it cannot be installed with a simple `npm install -g appium`. Instead, Appium 2.0 beta versions will be available with a special NPM tag next, so you can install it on any platform using NPM as follows:
- `npm install -g appium@next`

### Installing Appium drivers
At this point, after installing Appium 2.x for the first time, if you run the server, you'll get a line in the logs that looks something like this:
`[Appium] No drivers have been installed. Use the "appium driver" command to install the one(s) you want to use.`

(And you'll get the same message with respect to plugins). What this is telling us is that you need to have Appium install a driver before you run any tests. So we must install all the drivers that will be used in this project:
- `appium driver install xcuitest`
- `appium driver install uiautomator2`

Documentation:
- [Appium Desired Capabilities](http://appium.io/docs/en/writing-running-appium/caps/)
- [Getting Started](https://github.com/appium/appium/blob/master/docs/en/about-appium/getting-started.md)
- [Sample Code](https://github.com/appium/appium/tree/master/sample-code/java)

## AUTHOR
- **Ivan Andraschko** - [Ivan Andraschko](https://www.linkedin.com/in/ivan-andraschko/)
## LICENSE
This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE.md](LICENSE.md) file for details
